Changes in 2.4.4

    * Fixed incomplete checking of packet sizes in the ctlinnd interface in
      the no-Unix-domain-sockets case.  This is a potential buffer overflow
      in dead code since basically all systems INN builds on support Unix
      domain sockets these days.  Also track the buffer size more correctly
      in the client side of this interface for the Unix domain socket case.

    * Group blocks in incoming.conf are now correctly parsed and no longer
      cause segfaults when loading this file.

    * Fixed a problem with innfeed continuously segfaulting on amd64
      hardware (and possibly on lots of 64-bit platforms).  Many thanks to
      Ollivier Robert for his patch and also to Kai Gallasch for having
      reported the problem and provided the FreeBSD server to debug it.

    * scanlogs now rotates innfeed's log file, which prevents innfeed from
      silently dying when its log file reaches 2 GB.

    * Some news clients hang when posting an article through a SSL
      connection: it seems that nnrpd's SSL routines make it wrongly wait
      for data completion.  In order to fix the problem, the select() wait
      is now just bypassed.  However, the IDLE timer stat is currently not
      collected for such connections.  Thanks to Kachun Lee for this
      workaround.

    * Fixed a bug in the display of the used compressor ("cunbatch" was used
      if arguments were passed to gzip or bzip2).

    * Fixed a bug in mailpost and pullnews which prevented useful error
      messages to be seen.  Also add the -x flag to pullnews in order to
      insert Xref: headers in articles which lack one.

    * If compiling with Berkeley DB, use its ndbm compatibility layer for
      ckpasswd in preference to searching for a traditional dbm library. 
      INN also supports Berkeley DB 4.4 and Berkeley DB 4.6 thanks to Marco
      d'Itri.

    * ovdb_init now properly closes stdin/out/err when it becomes a daemon. 
      The issue was reported by Viktor Pilpenok and fixed by Marco d'Itri.

    * Added support for Diablo quickhash and hashfeed algorithms.  It allows
      to distribute the messages among several peers (new Q flag for
      newsfeeds).  Thanks to Miquel van Smoorenburg for this implementation
      in INN.

    * innd now listen on separate sockets for IPv4 and IPv6 connections if
      the IPV6_V6ONLY socket option is available.  There might also be
      operating systems that still have separate IPv4 and IPv6 TCP
      implementations, and advanced features like TCP SACK might not be
      available on v6 sockets.  Thanks to Miquel van Smoorenburg for this
      patch.

    * The two configuration options *bindaddress* and *bindaddress6* can now
      be set on a per-peer basis for innfeed.  Setting *bindaddress6* to
      "none" tells innfeed to never attempt an IPv6 connection to that host.
      Thanks to Miquel van Smoorenburg for this patch.

    * Added a *nnrpdflags* parameter to inn.conf (modeled on the concept of
      *innflags*) to permit passing of command line arguments to instances
      of nnrpd spawned from innd.

    * A new inn.conf parameter called *pathcluster* has been added: it
      allows to append a common name to the Path: header on all incoming
      articles.  *pathhost* and *pathalias* (if set) are still appended to
      the path as usual, but *pathcluster* is always appended as the last
      element (e.g. on the leftmost side of the Path: header).  Thanks to
      Miquel van Smoorenburg for this feature.

    * simpleftp has been rewritten to use "Net::FTP".  Indeed, ftp.pl is no
      longer shipped with Perl 5 and the script did not work.

    * perl-nocem will now check for a timeout and re-open the socket if
      required.  Additionally, perl-nocem will switch to cancel_ctlinnd in
      case cancel_nntp fails after sending the Message-ID.  Thanks to
      Christoph Biedl for the patch.  A more detailed documentation has also
      been written for perl-nocem(8).

    * The RADIUS configuration is now wrapped in a "server {}" block in
      radius.conf.

    * Checkgroups when there is nothing to change no longer result in
      sending a blank mail to administrators.  Besides, no mail is sent by
      controlchan for the creation of a newsgroup when the action is "no
      change".

    * Checkgroups are now properly propagated even though the news server
      does not carry the groups they are posted to.

    * controlchan and docheckgroups now handle wire format messages so that
      articles from the spool can be directly fed to them.

    * Newgroup control messages for existing groups now change their
      description.  If a mail is sent to administrators, it reminds them to
      update their newsgroups file.  It also warns when there are missing or
      obsolete descriptions.  Furthermore, the newsgroups file is now
      written prettier (from one to three tabulations between the name of
      the group and its short description) and to.* groups cannot be
      created.

    * The sample control.ctl file has been extensively updated.

    * Fixed empty LISTGROUP replies which were not terminated.  Thanks to
      David Canzi for the patch.

    * In response to a LIST [file] command, if the file does not exist, we
      assume it is not maintained and return 503 instead of 215 and an empty
      file.  Moreover, capability to LIST ACTIVE.TIMES for a wildmat pattern
      as its third argument has been added in order to select wanted
      newsgroups.

    * inews now tries to authenticate if it does not receive a 200 return
      code after MODE READER.  Indeed, it might be able to post even with a
      201 return code and also with another codes like 440 or 480.

    * If creating a new history file, set the ownership and mode
      appropriately.  inncheck also expects fewer things to be private to
      the news user.  Most of the configuration files will never contain
      private information like passwords.

    * Other minor bug fixes and documentation improvements.

Changes in 2.4.3

    * Previous versions of INN had an optimization for handling XHDR
      Newsgroups that used the Xref: header from overview.  While this does
      make the command much faster, it doesn't produce accurate results and
      breaks the NNTP protocol, so this optimization has been removed.

    * Fixed a bug in innd that allowed it to accept articles with duplicated
      headers if the header occurred an odd number of times.  Modified the
      programs for rebuilding overview to use the last Xref: header if there
      are multiple ones to avoid problems with spools that contain such
      invalid articles.

    * Fixed yet another problem with verifying that a user has permissions
      to approve posts to a moderated group.  Thanks, Jens Schlegel.

    * Increase the send and receive buffer on the Unix domain socket used by
      ctlinnd.  This should allow longer replies (particularly for innstat)
      on platforms with very low default Unix domain socket buffer sizes.

    * rnews's handling of articles with nul characters, NNTP errors, header
      problems, and deferrals has been significantly improved.

    * Thomas Parmelan added support to send-uucp for specifying the funnel
      or exploder site to flush for feeds managed through one and fixed a
      problem with picking up old stranded work files.

    * Many other more minor bug fixes, optimization improvements, and
      documentation fixes.

Changes in 2.4.2

    * INN is now licensed under a less restrictive license (about as
      minimally restrictive as possible shy of public domain), and the
      clause similar to the old BSD advertising clause has been dropped.

    * "make install" and "make update" now always install the newly built
      binaries, rather than only installing them if the modification times
      are newer.  This is the behavior that people expect.  "make install"
      now also automatically builds a new (empty) history database if one
      doesn't already exist.

    * The embedded Tcl filter code has been disabled (and will be removed
      entirely in the next major release of INN).  It hasn't worked for some
      time and causes innd crashes if compiled in (even if not used).  If
      someone wants to step forward and maintain it, I recommend starting
      from scratch and emulating the Perl and Python filters.

    * ctlinnd should now successfully handle messages from INN up to the
      maximum allowable packet size in the protocol, fixing problems sites
      with many active peers were having with innstat output.

    * Overview generation has been fixed in both makehistory and innd to
      follow the rules in the latest NNTP draft rather than just replacing
      special characters with spaces.  This means that the unfolding of
      folded header lines will not introduce additional, incorrect
      whitespace in the overview data.

    * nnrpd now uniformly responds with a 480 or 502 status code to attempts
      to read a newsgroup to which the user does not have access, depending
      on whether the user has authenticated.  Previously, it returned a 411
      status code, claiming the group didn't exist, which confuses the
      reactive authentication capability of news readers.

    * If a user is not authorized to approve articles (using the "A"
      *access* control in readers.conf), articles that include Approved:
      headers will be rejected even if posted to unmoderated groups.  Some
      other site may consider that group to be moderated.

    * The configuration parser used for readers.conf and others now
      correctly handles "#" inside quoted strings and is more robust against
      unmatched double quotes.

    * Messages mailed to moderators had two spaces after the colons in the
      headers, rather than one.  This bug has been fixed.

    * A bug that could cause heap corruption and random crashes in innd if
      INN were compiled with Python support has been fixed.

    * Some problems with innd's tracking of article size and enforcement of
      the configured maximum article size have been fixed.

    * pgpverify will now correctly verify signatures generated by GnuPG and
      better supports GnuPG as the PGP implementation.

    * INN's code should now be more 64-bit clean in its handling of size_t,
      pointer differences, and casting of pointers, correcting problems that
      showed up on 64-bit platforms like AMD64.

    * Improved the error reporting in the history database code, in inews,
      in controlchan, and in expire.

    * Many other, more minor bugs have also been fixed.

Changes in 2.4.1

    * SECURITY:  Handle the special filing of control messages into per-type
      newsgroups more robustly.  This closes a potentially exploitable
      buffer overflow.  Thanks to Dan Riley for his excellent bug report.

    * Fixed article handling in innd so that articles without a Path: header
      (arising from peers sending malformatted articles or injecting
      malformatted articles through rnews) would not cause innd to crash. 
      (This was not exploitable.)

    * Fixed a serious bug in XPAT handling, thanks to Tommy van Leeuwen.

    * "configure" now looks for sendmail only in /usr/sbin and /usr/lib, not
      on the user's path.  This should reduce the need for --with-sendmail
      if your preferred sendmail is in a standard location.

    * The robustness of the tradindexed overview method has been further
      increased, handling more edge cases arising from corrupted databases
      and oddly-named newsgroups.

    * innd now never decreases the high water mark of a newsgroup when
      renumbering, which should help ameliorate overview and active file
      synchronization problems.

    * Do not close and reopen the history file on ctlinnd reload when the
      server is paused or throttled.  This was breaking ctlinnd reload all
      during a server pause.

    * Various minor portability and compilation issues fixed.  Substantial
      numbers of compiler warnings have been cleaned up, thanks largely to
      work by Ilya Kovalenko.

    * Multiple other more minor bugs have been fixed.

    * Documentation and man pages have been clarified and updated.

Upgrading from 2.3 to 2.4

    The inn.conf parser has changed between INN 2.3 and 2.4.  Due to that
    change, options in inn.conf that contain whitespace or a few other
    special characters must be quoted with double quotes, and empty
    parameters (parameters with no value) are not allowed.  INN 2.4 comes
    with a script, innupgrade, run automatically during "make update", that
    will attempt to fix any problems that it finds with your inn.conf file,
    saving the original as inn.conf.OLD.

    This change is the beginning of standardization of parsing and syntax
    across all of INN's configuration files.

    The history subsystem now has a standard API that allows other backends
    to be used.  Because of this, you now need to specify the history method
    in inn.conf.  Adding:

        hismethod: hisv6

    will tell INN to use the same history backend as was used in previous
    versions.  innupgrade should take care of this for you.

    ovdb is known to have some locking and timing issues related to how
    nnrpd shuts down (or fails to shut down) the overview databases.  If you
    have stability problems with ovdb, try setting *readserver* to "true" in
    ovdb.conf.  This will funnel all ovdb reads through a single process
    with a cleaner interface to the underlying Berkeley DB database.

    If you use Perl authentication for nnrpd (if *nnrpdperlauth* in inn.conf
    is "true"), there have been major changes.  See "Changes to Perl
    Authentication Support for nnrpd" in doc/hook-perl for details.

    Similarly, if you use Python authentication for nnrpd (if
    *nnrpdpythonauth* in inn.conf is "true"), there have been major changes.
    See "Changes to Python Authentication and Access Control Support for
    nnrpd" in doc/hook-python for details.

    If you use send-uucp, it has been completely rewritten and now takes a
    configuration file to specify its behavior.  See its man page for more
    information.  If you use sendbatch, it is no longer included in INN
    since the new send-uucp can handle all of the same functionality.

    The wildmat API has been renamed (to uwildmat and friends; see
    uwildmat(3) for the interfaces) to distinguish it from Rich $alz's
    original version, since it now supports UTF-8.  This may require changes
    in other software packages that link against INN's libraries.

    If you are upgrading from a version prior to INN 2.3, see "Upgrading
    from 2.2 to 2.3".

Changes in 2.4.0

    * IPv6 support has been added, disabled by default.  If you have IPv6
      connectivity, build with --enable-ipv6 to try it.  There are no known
      bugs, but please report any problems you find (or even successes, if
      you use an unusual platform).  There are a few changes of interest;
      further information is available in doc/IPv6-info.

    * The tradindexed overview method has been completely rewritten and
      should be considerably more robust in the face of system crashes.  A
      new utility, tdx-util, is provided to examine the contents of the
      overview database, repair inconsistencies, and rebuild the overview
      for particular groups from a tradspool news spool.  See tdx-util(8)
      for more details.

    * The Perl and Python authentication hooks for readers have been
      extensively overhauled and integrated better with readers.conf.  See
      the Changes sections in doc/hook-perl and doc/hook-python for more
      details.

    * nnrpd now optionally supports article injection via IHAVE, see
      readers.conf(5).  Any articles injected this way must have Date, From,
      Message-ID, Newsgroups, Path, and Subject headers.  X-Trace and
      X-Complaints-To headers will be added if the appropriate options are
      set in readers.conf, but other headers will not be modified/inserted
      (e.g.  NNTP-Posting-Host, NNTP-Posting-Date, Organization, Lines, Cc,
      Bcc, and To headers).

    * nnrpd now handles arbitrarily long lines in POST and IHAVE;
      administrators who want to limit the length of lines in locally posted
      articles will need to add this to their local filters instead.

    * nnrpd no longer handles the poorly-specified RFC 977 optional fourth
      argument to the NEWGROUPS command specifying the "distributions" that
      the command was supposed to apply to.

      Clients that use that argument will break.  There are not believed to
      be any such clients, and it's easy enough to just filter the returned
      list of newsgroups (which is generally fairly short) to achieve the
      same results.

    * nnrpd no longer accepts UTC as a synonym for GMT for NEWGROUPS or
      NEWNEWS.  This usage was never portable, and was rejected by the NNTP
      working group.  It is being removed now in the hope that it will be
      caught before anyone starts to rely on it.

    * innfeed supports a new peer parameter, *backlog-feed-first*, that if
      set to "true" feeds any backlog to a peer before new articles, see
      innfeed.conf(5).  When used in combination with *max-connections* set
      to 1, this can be used to enforce in-order delivery of messages to a
      peer that is doing Xref slaving, avoiding cases where a
      higher-numbered message is received before a lower-numbered message in
      the same group.

    * Several other, more minor protocol issues have been fixed: 
      connections rejected due to the connection rate limiting in innd
      receive 400 replies instead of 504 or 505, and ARTICLE without an
      argument will always either retrieve the current article or return a
      423 error, never advance the current article number to the next valid
      article.

      See doc/compliance-nntp for all of the known issues with INN's
      compliance with the current NNTP draft.

    * All accesses to the history file for all parts of INN now go through a
      generic API like the storage and overview subsystems do.  This will
      eventually allow new history implementations to be dropped in without
      affecting the rest of INN, and will significantly improve the
      encapsulation of the history subsystem.  See the libinnhist(3) man
      page for the details of the interface.

    * INN now uses a new parser for the inn.conf file.  This means that
      parameters containing whitespace or other special characters must now
      be quoted; see inn.conf(5).  It fixes the long-standing bug that
      certain values must be included in inn.conf even if using the defaults
      for the use of shell or Perl scripts, and it will serve as the basis
      for standardizing and cleaning up the configuration file parsing in
      other parts of INN.  innupgrade is run during "make update" and should
      convert an existing inn.conf file for you.

    * send-uucp has been replaced by a completely rewritten version from
      Marco d'Itri, Edvard Tuinder, and Miquel van Smoorenburg, which uses a
      configuration file that specifies batch sizes, compression methods,
      and hours during which batches should be generated.  The old sendbatch
      script has been retired, since send-uucp can now handle everything
      that it did.

    * Two "configure" options have changed names:  --with-tmp-path is now
      --with-tmp-dir, and --with-largefiles is now --enable-largefiles, to
      improve consistency and better match the "autoconf" option guidelines.

    * Variables can now be used in the newsfeeds file to make it easier to
      specify many similar feeds or feed patterns.  See the newsfeeds(5) man
      page for details.

    * Local connections to INN support a new special mode, MODE CANCEL, that
      allows efficient batch cancellation of messages.  This is intended to
      be the preferred interface for external spam and abuse filters like
      NoCeM.  See "CANCEL FEEDS" in innd(8) for details.

    * Two new options, *nfsreader* and *nfswriter*, have been added to
      inn.conf to aid in building NFS based shared reader/writer platforms. 
      On the writer server configure *nfswriter* to "true" and on all of the
      readers configure *nfsreader* to "true"; these options add calls to
      force data out to the NFS server and force it to be read directly from
      the NFS server at the appropriate moments.  Note that it has only been
      tested on Solaris 8, using CNFS as the storage mechanism and
      tradindexed as the overview method.

    * A new option, *tradindexedmmap*, has been added to inn.conf.  If set
      to "true" (the default), then the tradindexed overview method will use
      mmap() to access its overview data (in 2.3 you couldn't control this;
      it always used mmap).

    * Thanks to code contributed by CMU, innfeed can now feed an IMAP server
      as well as other NNTP servers.  See the man page for innfeed(8) for
      more information.

    * An authenticator, auth_smb, that checks a username and password
      against a remote Samba server is now included.  See auth_smb(8) for
      details.

    * The wildmat functions in INN now support UTF-8, in a way that should
      allow them to still work with most simple 8-bit character sets in
      widespread use.  As part of this change, some additional wildmat
      interfaces are now available and the names have changed (to uwildmat,
      where "u" is for Unicode).  See uwildmat(3) for the details.

    * The interface between external authenticators and nnrpd is now
      properly documented, in doc/external-auth.  A library implementing
      this interface in C is provided, which should make it easier to write
      additional authenticators resolvers.  See libauth(3) for details, and
      any of the existing programs in authprogs/ for examples.

    * Most (if not all) of the temporary file creation in INN now uses
      functions that create temporary files properly and safely.

Changes in 2.3.5

    * Clients using POST are no longer permitted to provide an
      Injector-Info: header.

    * Fixed a bug causing posts with Followup-To: set to a moderated group
      to be rejected if the posting user didn't have permission to approve
      postings.

    * Fixed bugs in inncheck with setuid rnews or setgid inews, in
      *innconfval* with inn.conf parameters containing shell metacharacters
      but no spaces, and in parsedate.y with some versions of yacc.  Fixed a
      variety of size-related printf format warnings (e.g., %d vs. %ld)
      thanks to the work of Winfried Szukalski.

Changes in 2.3.4

    * LIST ACTIVE no longer returns data when given a single group argument
      if the client is not authorized to read that group.

    * XHDR and XPAT weren't correctly parsing article headers, resulting in
      searches for the header "newsgroup" matching the header "newsgroups".

    * Made CNFS more robust against crashes by actually syncing the cycbuff
      headers to disk as was originally intended.  Fixed a memory leak in
      the tradspool code.

    * Two bugs in pgpverify when using GnuPG were fixed:  it now correctly
      checks for gpgv (rather than pgp) when told to use GnuPG and expects
      the keyring to be pubring.gpg (not pubring.pgp).

    * Substantial updates to the sample provided control.ctl file.

    * Compilation fixes with Perl 5.8.0, Berkeley DB 4.x, current versions
      of Linux (including with large file support), and Tru64.  inndf fixes
      for ReiserFS.

    * Various bugs in the header handling in nnrpd have been fixed,
      including hangs when using virtual domains and improper processing of
      folded headers under certain circumstances.

    * Other minor bug fixes and documentation improvements.

Changes in 2.3.3

    * pgpverify now supports using GnuPG to check signatures (rather than
      PGP) without the pgpgpg wrapper.  GnuPG can check both old-style RSA
      signatures and new OpenPGP signatures and is recommended over PGP 2.6.
      If you have GnuPG installed, pgpverify will use it rather than PGP,
      which means that you may have to create a new key ring for GnuPG to
      use to verify signatures if you were previously using PGP.

    * Users can no longer post articles containing Approved: headers to
      moderated groups by default; they must be specifically given that
      permission with the *access* parameter in readers.conf.  See the man
      page for more details.

    * Two bugs in repacking overview index files and a reliability bug with
      writing overview data were all fixed in the tradindexed overview
      method, hopefully making it somewhat more reliable, particularly for
      makehistory.

    * If rc.news.local exists in the INN binary directory, it will be run
      with the start or stop argument whenever rc.news is run.  This is
      available as a hook for local startup and shutdown code.

    * The default history table hash sizes were increased because a
      too-small value can cause serious performance problems (whereas a
      too-large hash just wastes a bit of disk space).

    * The sample control.ctl file has been extensively updated.

    * Wildmat exclusions ("@" and "!") should now work properly in
      storage.conf newsgroup patterns.

    * The implementation of the -w flag for expireover was fixed;
      previously, the value given to -w to change expireover's notion of the
      current time was scaled by too much.

    * Various other more minor bug fixes, standards compliance fixes, and
      documentation improvements.

Changes in 2.3.2

    * innxmit can again handle regular filenames as input as well as storage
      API tokens (allowing it to be used to import an old traditional
      spool).

    * Several problems with tagged-hash history files have been fixed thanks
      to the debugging efforts of Andrew Gierth and Sang-yong Suh.

    * A very long-standing (since INN 1.0!) NNTP protocol bug in nnrpd was
      fixed.  The response to an ARTICLE command retrieving a message by
      Message-ID should have the Message-ID as the third word of the
      response, not the fourth.  Fixing this is reported to *possibly* cause
      problems with some Netscape browsers, but other news servers correctly
      follow the protocol.

    * Some serious performance problems with expiration of tradspool should
      now be at least somewhat alleviated.  tradspool and timehash now know
      how to output file names for removal rather than tokens, and fastrm's
      ability to remove regular files has been restored.  This should bring
      expiration times for tradspool back to within a factor of two of
      pre-storage-API expiration times.

    * Added a sample subscriptions file and documentation for it and
      innmail.

Changes in 2.3.1

    * inews no longer downloads the active file, no longer tries to send
      postings to moderated groups to the moderator directly, and in general
      duplicates less of the functionality of nnrpd, instead letting nnrpd
      handle it.  This fixes the problem of inews not working properly for
      users other than news without being setgid.

    * Added a man page for ckpasswd.

    * A serious bug in the embedded Perl authentication hooks was fixed,
      thanks to Jan Rychter.

    * The annoying compilation problem with embedded Perl filtering on Linux
      systems without libgdbm installed should be fixed.

    * INN now complains loudly at "configure" time if the configured path
      for temporary files is world-writeable, since this configuration can
      be a security hole.

    * Many other varied bug fixes and documentation fixes of all sorts.

Upgrading from 2.2 to 2.3

    There may be additional things to watch out for not listed here; if you
    run across any, please let <inn-bugs@isc.org> know about them.

    Simply doing a "make update" is not sufficient to upgrade; the history
    and overview information will also have to be regenerated, since the
    formats of both files have changed between 2.2 and 2.3.  Regardless of
    whether you were using the storage API or traditional spool under 2.2,
    you'll need to rebuild your overview and history files.  You will also
    need to add a storage.conf file, if you weren't using the storage API
    under INN 2.2.  A good default storage.conf file for 2.2 users would be:

        method tradspool {
            newsgroups: *
            class: 0
        }

    Create this storage.conf file before rebuilding history or overview.

    If you want to allow readers, or if you want to expire based on
    newsgroup name, you need to tell INN to generate overview data and pick
    an overview method by setting *ovmethod* in inn.conf.  See INSTALL and
    inn.conf(5) for more details.

    The code that generates the dbz index files has been split into a
    separate program, makedbz.  makehistory still generates the base history
    file and the overview information, but some of its options have been
    changed.  To rebuild the history and overview files, use something like:

        makehistory -b -f history.n -O -T /usr/local/news/tmp -l 600000

    (change the /usr/local/news/tmp path to some directory that has plenty
    of temporary space, and leave off -O if you're running a transit-only
    server and don't intend to expire based on group name, and therefore
    don't need overview.)  Or if your overview is buffindexed, use:

        makehistory -b -f history.n -O -F

    Both will generate a new history file as history.n and rebuild overview
    at the same time.  If you want to preseve a record of expired
    Message-IDs in the history file, run:

        awk 'NF==2 { print; }' < history >> history.n

    to append them to the new history file you created above.  Look over the
    new history file and make sure it looks right, then generate the new
    index files and move them into place:

        makedbz -s `wc -l < history.n` -f history.n
        mv history.n history
        mv history.n.dir history.dir
        mv history.n.hash history.hash
        mv history.n.index history.index

    (Rather than .hash and .index files, you may have a .pag file if you're
    using tagged hash.)

    For reader machines, nnrp.access has been replaced by readers.conf. 
    There currently isn't a program to convert between the old format and
    the new format (if you'd like to contribute one, it would be welcomed
    gratefully).  The new file is unfortunately considerably more complex as
    a result of its new capabilities; please carefully read the example
    readers.conf provided and the man page when setting up your initial
    configuration.  The provided commented-out examples cover the most
    common installation (IP-based authentication for all machines on the
    local network).

    INN makes extensive use of mmap(2) for the new overview mechanisms, so
    at the present time NFS-mounting the spool and overview on multiple
    reader machines from one central server probably isn't feasible in this
    version.  mmap tends to interact poorly with NFS (at the least, NFS
    clients won't see updates to the mapped files in situations where they
    should).  (The preferred way to fix this would, rather than backing out
    the use of mmap or making it optional, to add support for Diablo-style
    header feeds and pull-on-demand of articles from a master server.)

    The flags for overchan have changed, plus you probably don't want to run
    overchan at all any more.  Letting innd write overview data itself
    results in somewhat slower performance, but is more reliable and has a
    better failure mode under high loads.  Writing overview data directly is
    the default, so in a normal upgrade from 2.2 to 2.3 you'll want to
    comment out or remove your overchan entry in newsfeeds and set
    *useoverchan* to "false" in inn.conf.

    crosspost is no longer installed, and no longer works (even with
    traditional spool).  If you have an entry for crosspost in newsfeeds,
    remove it.

    If you're importing a traditional spool from a pre-storage API INN
    server, it's strongly recommended that you use NNTP to feed the articles
    to your new server rather than trying to build overview and history
    directly from the old spool.  It's more reliable and ensures that
    everything gets put into the right place.  The easiest way to do this is
    to generate, on your old server, a list of all of your existing article
    files and then feed that list to innxmit.  Further details can be found
    in the FAQ at <http://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/faqs/inn.html>.

    If you are using a version of Cleanfeed that still has a line in it
    like:

        $lines = $hdr{'__BODY__'} =~ tr/\n/\n/;

    you will need to change this line to:

        $lines = $hdr{'__LINES__'};

    to work with INN 2.3 or later.  This is due to an internal optimization
    of the interface to embedded filters that's new in INN 2.3.

Changes in 2.3.0

    * New readers.conf file (replaces nnrp.access) which allows more
      flexible specification of access restrictions.  Included in the sample
      implementations is a RADIUS-based authenticator.

    * Unified overview has been replaced with an overview API, and there are
      now three separate overview implementations to choose from.  One
      (tradindexed) is very like traditional overview but uses an additional
      index file.  The second (buffindexed) uses large buffers rather than
      separate files for each group and can handle a higher incoming article
      rate while still being fast for readers.  The third (ovdb) uses
      Berkeley DB to store overview information (so you need to have
      Berkeley DB installed to use it).  The *ovmethod* key in inn.conf
      chooses the overview method to use.

      Note that ovdb has not been as widely tested as the other overview
      mechanisms and should be considered experimental.

    * All article storage and retrieval is now done via the storage API. 
      Traditional spool is now available as a storage type under the storage
      API.  (Note that the current traditional spool implementation causes
      nightly expire to be extremely slow for a large number of articles, so
      it's not recommended that you use the tradspool storage method for the
      majority of a large spool.)

    * The timecaf storage method has been added, similar to timehash but
      storing multiple articles in a single file.  See INSTALL for details
      on it.

    * INN now supports embedded Python filters as well as Perl and Tcl
      filters, and supports Python authentication hooks.

    * There is preliminary support for news reading over SSL, using OpenSSL.

    * To simplify anti-abuse filtering, and to be more compliant with news
      standards and proposed standards, INN now treats as control messages
      only articles containing a Control: header.  A Subject: line beginning
      with "cmsg " is no longer sufficient for a message to be considered a
      control message, and the Also-Control: header is no longer supported.

    * The INN build system no longer uses subst.  (This will be transparent
      to most users; it's an improvement and modernization of how INN is
      configured.)

    * The build and installation system has been substantially overhauled. 
      "make update" now updates scripts as well as binaries and
      documentation, there is better support for parallel builds ("make
      -j"), there is less "make" recursion, and far more of the
      system-dependent configuration is handled directly by "autoconf". 
      libtool build support (including shared library support) should be
      better than previous releases.

Changes in 2.2.3

    * inews is not installed setgid news and rnews is not installed setuid
      root by default any more.  If you need the old permissions, you have
      to give a flag to configure.  See INSTALL for more details.

    * Fixed a security hole when *verifycancels* was enabled in inn.conf
      (not the default).

    * Message-IDs are now limited to 250 octets to prevent interoperability
      problems with other servers.

    * Embedded Perl filters now work with Perl 5.6.0.

    * Lots of bug fixes and changes for security paranoia.

Changes in 2.2.2

    * Various minor bug fixes and a Y2K bug fix.  The Y2K bug is in version
      version 2.2.1 only and will show up after Jan 1st, 2000 when a news
      reader issues a NEWNEWS command for a date prior to the year 2000.

Changes in 2.2.1

    * Various bug fixes, mostly notably fixes for potential buffer overflow
      security vulnerabilities.

Changes in 2.2.0

    * New storage.conf file (replaces storage.ctl).

    * New (optional) way of handling non-cancel control messages
      (controlchan) that serializes them and prevents server overload from
      control message storms.

    * Support for actsyncd to fetch active file with ftp; configured by
      default to use <ftp://ftp.isc.org/pub/usenet/CONFIG/active.Z> if you
      run actsyncd.  Be sure to read the manual page for actsync to
      configure an actsync.ign file for your site, and test simpleftp if you
      do not "configure" with wget or ncftp.  Also see
      <ftp://ftp.isc.org/pub/usenet/CONFIG/README>.

    * Some options to "configure" are now moved to inn.conf
      (*merge-to-groups* and *pgp-verify*, without the hyphen).

    * inndf, a portable version of df(1), is supplied.

    * New cnfsstat program to show stats of CNFS buffers.

    * news2mail and mailpost programs for gatewaying news to mail and mail
      to news are supplied.

    * pullnews program for doing a sucking feed is provided (not meant for
      large feeds).

    * The innshellvars.csh.in script is obsolete (and lives in the obsolete
      directory, for now).

