This is version 1.0 of the INN feeder program `innfeed.'
It is written in ANSI C and tries to be POSIX.1 compliant. This software
was originally written and maintained by James Brister <brister@vix.com>
and is now part of INN. The features of it are:

	1. Handles the STREAM extenstion to NNTP.
	2. Will open multiple connections to the remote host to parallel
	   feed.
	3. Will handle multiple remote hosts.
	4. Will tear down idle connections.
	5. Runs as a channel/funnel feed from INN, or by reading a funnel 
	   file.
	6. Will stop issuing CHECK commands and go straight to TAKETHIS if
	   the remote responds affermatively to enough CHECKs.
	7. It will go back to issuing CHECKs if enough TAKETHIS commands fail.


Changes for 0.10.1

	1. Config file inclusion now works via the syntax:

		$INCLUDE pathname

	   Config files can be included up to a nesting depth of 10.  Line
	   numbers and file names are not properly reported yet on errors
	   when includes are used, though.

	2. Signal handling is tidied up a bit. If your compiler doesn't 
	   support the ``volatile'' keyword, then see the comment in
	   sysconfig.h.

	3. If you have a stdio library that hash limit on open files lower
	   then the process limit for open plain files (all flavours of
	   SunOS), then a new config file variable ``stdio-fdmax'' can be
	   used to give that upper bound. When set, all new network
	   connections will be limited to file descriptors over this value,
	   leaving the lower file descriptors free for stdio. See
	   innfeed.conf(5) for more details. Remember that the config file
	   value overrides any compiled in value.
	
Changes for 0.10

	1. A major change has been made to the config file. The new format
	   is quite extensible and will let new data items be added in the
	   future without changing the basic format. There's a new option
	   ``-C'' (for ``check'') that will make innfeed read the config
	   file and report on any errors and then exit. This will let you
	   verify things before locking them into a newsfeeds file entry. A
	   program has been added ``innfeed-convcfg'' that will read your
	   old config off the command line (or stdin), and will write a new
	   version to stdout. 

	   The new config file structure permits non-peer-specific items to
	   be declared (like the location of the status file, or whether to
	   wrap the generated status file in HTML). This is part of the
	   included sample:

		    use-mmap:               true
		    news-spool:             /var/news/spool/articles
		    backlog-directory:      /var/news/spool/innfeed
		    pid-file:               innfeed.pid
		    status-file:            innfeed.status
		    gen-html:               false
		    log-file:               innfeed.log
		    backlog-factor:         1.10
		    connection-stats:       false
		    max-reconnect-time:     3600

	   so only option you'll probably need now is the ``-c'' option to
	   locate the config file, and as this is also compiled in, you may
	   not even need that.

	   See the innfeed.conf(5) man page for more details on config file
	   structure.
	   
	2. The backlog file handling is changed slightly:

		- The .output file is always kept open (until rotation time).
		- The .output file is allowed to grow for at least 30
		  seconds (or the value defined by the key
		  backlog-rotate-period in the config file). This prevents
		  thrashing of backlog files.
		- The hand-prepared file is checked for only every 600
		  seconds maximum (or the value defined by the key 
		  backlog-new), not every time the files are rotated.
		- The stating of the three backlog files is reduced
		  dramatically.

	3. Signal handling is changed so that they are more synchronous
	   with other activity. This should stop the frequent core-dumps
	   that occured when running in funnel file mode and sending 
	   SIGTERM or SIGALRM.

	4. A bug related to zero-length articles was fixed. They will now be
	   logged.

	5. More information is in the innfeed.status file, including the
	   reasons return by the remote when it is throttled.

	6. SIGEMT is now a trigger for closing and reopening all the
	   backlog files. If you have scripts that need to fool with the
	   backlogs, then have the scripts move the backlogs out of the way
	   and then send the SIGEMT.

Changes for 0.9.3

	1. If your system supports mmap() *and* if you have your articles
	   stored on disk in NNTP-ready format (rare), then you can have
	   innfeed mmap article data to save on memory (thanks to Dave
	   Lawrence). There is an important issue with this:

		if you try to have innfeed handle too many articles (by
		running many connections and/or high max-check values in 
		innfeed.conf) at once, then your system (not your process)
		may run out of free vnodes (global file descriptors), as a
		vnode is used as long as the file is mmaped. So be careful.

	   If your articles are not in NNTP format then this will be
	   noticed and the article will be pulled into memory for fixing up
	   (and then immediately munmap'd).  You can disable use of MMAP if
	   you've built it in by using the '-M' flag. I tried mixing
	   mmap'ing and articles not in NNTP format and it was a real
	   performance loss. I'll be trying it differently later.

	2. If innfeed is asked to send an article to a host it knows
	   nothing about, or which it cannot acquire the required lock for
	   (which causes the "ME locked cannot setup peer ..." and "ME
	   unconfigured peer" syslog messages), then innfeed will deposit
	   the article information into a file matching the pattern
	   innfeed-dropped.* in the backlog directory (TAPE_DIRECTORY in
	   config.h). This file will not be processed in any manner -- it's
	   up to you to decide what to do with it (wait for innfeed to exit
	   before doing anything with it, or send innfeed a SIGHUP to get
	   it to reread its config file, which will roll this file).

	4. The output backlog files will now be kept below a certain byte
	   limit. This happens via the ``-e'' option. If, after writing to
	   an output file, the new length is bigger than the given limit
	   (multiplied by a fudge factor defined in config.h -- default of
	   1.10) then the file will be shrunk down to this size (or slightly
	   smaller to find the end of line boundary). The front of the file
	   will be removed to do this. This means lost articles for the
	   entries removed.

	3. A SIGHUP will make the config be reloaded. 

	4. The .checkpoint files have been dropped in favour of scribbling
	   the offset into the input file itself.

	5. When the process exits normally a final syslog entry covering
	   all of the peers over the life of the process is written. It
	   looks like:

		Jan 12 15:51:53 data innfeed.tester[24189]: ME global
			seconds 2472 offered 43820 accepted 10506 
			refused 31168 rejected 1773 missing 39

	6. SIGALARM now rolls the input file, rather than the log
	   file. This is useful in funnel file mode when you move the input
	   file and tell innd to flush it, then send innfeed the signal.

	7. The location of the pid file, config file and status file, can
	   now be relative, in which case they're relative to the backlog
	   directory. 

	8. stdin stdout and stderr are initialized properly when innfeed is
	   started by a process that has closed them.

	9. Various values in config.h have changed (paths to look more like
	   values used in inn 1.5 and others to support point #7 above 
	   more easily.)

	10. procbatch.pl can now 'require' innshellvars.pl that comes with
	    1.5. The default is not to. You nead to do a one line tweak if
	    you want it to. The defaults in procbatch.pl match the new
	    defaults of innfeed.

	11. Core files that get generated on purpose will be done so in
	    CORE_DIRECTORY (as defined in config.h), if that is defined to a
	    pathname. If CORE_DIRECTORY is defined to be NULL (the default
	    now), then the core will be generated in the backlog directory (as
	    possibly modified by the '-b' option).


Changes for 0.9.2

	1. Now includes David Lawrence's patches to handle funnel files.

	2. EAGAIN errors on read and writes are caught and dealt with (of
	   interest to Solaris `victims').

	3. It is now much faster at servicing the file descriptor attached
	   to innd. This means it is faster at recognising it has been
	   flushed and at dropping connections. This means fewer
	   conflicts with new innfeeds starting before the old one has
	   finished up. It is still a good net-citizen and it finishes the
	   commands already started, so the fast response is only as fast
	   as your slowest peer, but it no longer tries to send
	   everything it had queued internally, and locks get released much
	   quicker.

	4. Includes Michael Hucka's patch to make the innfeed.status output
	   neater.

	5. Includes Andy Vasilyev's HTML-in-innfeed.status patch (but you
	   have to enable it in config.h).

	6. Added a '-a' (top of news spool) and a '-p' (pid file path)
	   option.

Changes for 0.9

	1. Format of innfeed.conf file changed slightly (for per-peer
	   streaming specs).
	2. Including Greg Patten's innlog.pl (taken from 
		ftp://loose.apana.org.au/pub/local/innlog/innlog.pl)
	3. Added Christophe Wolfhugel's patch to permit a per-peer
	   restriction on using streaming.
	4. More robust handling of peers that return bad responses (no long
	   just calling abort).

Changes for 0.8.5

	1. Massive syslog messages cleanup courtesy of kre.
	2. The innlog.awk-patch hash been dropped from the distribution
	   until the new syslog messages are dealt with.
	3. State machine more robust in the face of unexpected responses
	   from remote. Connection gets torn down and bad response's
	   logged.
	4. The fixed timers (article reception timeout, read timeout,
	   and flush timeout) are all adjusted by up to +/-10% so that
	   things aren't quite so synchronised.
	5. The innfeed.status file has been expanded and reformatted to
	   include more information. 

Changes for 0.8.4
	
	1. A change in the handing off of articles to connections in order to
	   encourage connections that were opened due to activity spikes,
	   to close down sooner.
	2. The backlog files are no longer concatenated together at process
	   startup, but the .input is simply used if it exists, and if not
	   then the hand-dropped file is used first and the .output file
	   second.
	3. The innfeed.status is no longer updated by a innfeed that is in
	   its death-throws.
	4. Specifically catch the 480 response code from NNRPD when we try
	   to give it an IHAVE.
	5. The connection reestablishment time gets properly increased when
	   the connection fails to go through (up to and including the
	   reading of the banner message).
	6. Bug fix that occasionally had articles sit in a connection and
	   never get processed.
	7. Bug fix in the counter of number of sleeping connections.
	8. Bug fix in config file parsing.
	9. Procbatch.pl included.

Changes for version 0.8.1

	1. various bug fixes.
	2. core files generated by ASSERT are (possibly) put in a seperate
	   directory to ease debugging are

Changes for version 0.8

	1. The implicit state machine in the Connection objects has been
	   made explicit.
	2. Various bug fixes.

Changes for version 0.7.1

	1. Pulled the source to inet_addr.c from the bind distribution.
	   (Solaris and some others don't have it).

Changes for version 0.7

	1. The backlog file mechanism has been completely reworked. There are
           now only two backlog files: one for output and on for input. The
           output file becomes the input file when the input file is
           exhausted.
	2. Much less strenuous use of writev. Solaris and other sv4r
           machines have an amazingly low value for the maximum number of
           iovecs that can be passed into writev.
	3. Proper connection cleanup (QUIT issued) at shutdown.
	4. A lock is taken out in the backlog directory for each peer. To feed
           the same peer from two different instances of innfeed (with a
           batch file for example), then you must use another directory.
	5. Creating a file in the backlog directory with the same name as the
           peer, the that file will be used next time backlog files are
           processed. Its format must be:

		pathname msgid

	   where pathname is absolute, or relative to the top of the news
           spool.
	6. More command line options.
	7. Dynamic peer creation. If the proper command line option is
           used (-y) and innfeed is to told to feed a peer that it doesn't
           have in its config file, then it will create a new binding to
           the new peer. The ip name must be the same as the peername,
	   i.e. if innd tells innfeed about a peer fooBarBat, then
	   gethostbyname("fooBarBat") better work.
	8. Connections will be periodically torn down (1 hour is the
	   default), even if they're active, so that non-innd peers don't
           have problems with their history files being kept open for too
           long.
	9. The input backlog files are checkpointed every 30 seconds
           so that a crash while processing a large backlog doesn't require
           starting over from the beginning.

Changes for version 0.6

	1. Logging of spooling of backlog only happens once per
	   stats-logging period.

Bugs/Problems/Notes etc:

	1. There is no graceful handling of file descriptor exhaustion.

	2. If the following situation occurs:

		- articles on disk are NOT in NNTP-ready format.
		- innfeed was built with HAVE_MMAP defined.
		- memory usage is higher than expected

	   try running innfeed with the '-M' flag (or recompiling with
	   HAVE_MMAP undefined). Solaris, and possibly other SVR4 machines,
	   waste a lot of swap space.

	3. On the stats logging the 'offered' may not equal the sum of the
	   other fields. This is because the stats at that moment were
	   generated while waiting for a response to a command to come
	   back. Innfeed considers an article ``offered'' when it sends the
	   command, not when it gets a response back. Perhaps this should
	   change.

	4. If all the Connections for a peer are idle and a new backlog file
	   is dropped in by hand, then it will not be picked up until the
	   next time it gets an article from innd for that peer. This will
	   be fixed in a later version, but for now, if the peer is likely
	   to be idle for a long time, then flush the process.

	5. Adding a backlog file by hand does not cause extra Connections to
	   be automatically created, only the existing Connections will use
	   the file. If the extra load requires new Connections to be built
	   when innd delivers new articles for tranmission, then they too
	   will use the file, but this a side effect and not a direct
	   consequence. This means if you want to run in '-x' mode, then
	   make sure your config file entry states the correct number of
	   initial connections, as they're all the Connections that will be
	   created.
	  
	6. If '-x' is used and the config file has an entry for a peer that
	   has no batch file to process, then innfeed will not exit after
	   all batch files have been finished--it will just site there idle.

	7. If the remote is running inn and only has you in the nnrp.access
	   file, then innfeed will end up talking to nnrpd. Innfeed will
	   try every 30 seconds to reconnect to a server that will accept
	   IHAVE commands. i.e. there is no exponential back of retry
	   attempt. This is because the connection is considered good once
	   the MODE STREAM command has been accepted or rejected (and nnrpd
	   rejects it).

Futures:

	1. Innfeed will eventually take exploder commands.

	2. The config file will be revamped to allow for more global
	   options etc and run-time configuration. Too much is compile-time
	   dependant at the moment.

	3. The connection retry time will get more sophisticated to catch
	   problems like the nnrpd issue mentioned above.

	4. Include the number of takesthis/check/ihave commands issued in
           the log entries.

	5. Heaps more stuff requested that's buried in my mail folders.


Any compliments, complaints, requests, porting issues etc. should go to
<inn-bugs@isc.org>.

Many thanks to the following people for extra help (above and beyond the
call of duty) with pateches, beta testing and/or suggestions:

    Christophe Wolfhugel <wolf@pasteur.fr> 
    Robert Elz <kre@munnari.oz.au>
    Russell Vincent <vincent@ucthpx.uct.ac.za>
    Paul Vixie <paul@vix.com>
    Stephen Stuart <stuart@pa.dec.com>
    John T. Stapleton <stapes@mro.dec.com>
    Alan Barrett <apb@iafrica.com>
    Lee McLoughlin <lmjm@doc.ic.ac.uk>
    Dan Ellis <ellis@mail.microserve.net>
    Katsuhiro Kondou <kondou@uxd.fc.nec.co.jp>
    Marc G. Fournier <scrappy@ki.net>
    Steven Bauer <sbauer@msmailgw.sdsmt.edu>
    Richard Perini <rpp@ci.com.au>
    Per Hedeland <per@erix.ericsson.se>
    Clayton O'Neill <coneill@premier.net> 
    Dave Pascoe <dave@mathworks.com>
    Michael Handler <handler@netaxs.com>
    Petr Lampa <lampa@fee.vutbr.cz>
    David Lawrence <tale@uu.net>
    Don Lewis <Don.Lewis@tsc.tdk.com>	
    Landon Curt Noll <noll@sgi.com>

If I've forgotten anybody, please let me know.

Thanks also to ISC for sponsoring this work.
