                        Overview of innd Internals

Introduction

    innd is in many respects the heart of INN.  It is the transit
    component of the news server, the component that accepts new articles
    from peers or from nnrpd on behalf of local readers, stores them, and
    puts information about them in the right places so that other programs
    such as innxmit or innfeed can send them back to other peers.

    innd is structured around channels.  With the exception of the active
    file, the history database, the article and overview storage system,
    and a few other things such as logs, everything coming into or going
    out of innd is handled by a channel.  Each channel can be waiting to
    read, waiting to write, or sleeping.  innd's main loop (in
    CHANreadloop) calls select, passes control to each channel whose file
    descriptor selected ready for reading or writing, and takes care of
    other housekeeping (such as finding idle peers or waking up sleeping
    channels at the right time).  The core channel routines are in chan.c,
    with major classes of channels handled by cc.c, lc.c, nc.c, rc.c, and
    site.c.  See below for more details on the types of channels.  The
    routines in proc.c are used to manage processes spawned for outgoing
    channels.

    The storage and overview subsystem are mostly self-contained at this
    point and INN is simply a client of the storage and overview APIs.
    The history database is approaching that state, but some aspects (such
    as the pre-commit cache handled by the WIP* family of routines in
    wip.c) are still handled internally by innd.

    Updates and queries of the active file are handled internally by innd
    in the ICD* and NG* family of routines in icd.c and ng.c.

    innd is configured primarily by incoming.conf (which controls who can
    send articles) and newsfeeds (which controls where the articles should
    go after they're received and stored).  The former is read in rc.c,
    the file that also contains the RC* family of routines for dealing
    with the remote connection channel (see below).  The latter is read by
    newsfeeds.c and is used to set up all of the outgoing channels when
    innd is started or told to re-read the file.  Incoming articles are
    parsed and fed to the appropriate places by the routines in art.c.

    Both Perl and Python embedded filters are supported.  The glue
    routines to load and run the Perl or Python scripts are in perl.c and
    python.c respectively.

    Finally, keywords.c contains the support for synthesizing keywords
    based on article contents, status.c writes out innd status
    periodically if configured, util.c contains various utility functions
    used by other parts of innd, and innd.c contains the startup,
    initialization, and shutdown code as well as the main routine.

Core Channel Handling

    CHANreadloop is the main processing loop of innd.  As long as innd is
    running, it will be inside that function.  The core channel code
    maintains a table of channels, which have a one-to-one correspondence
    with open file descriptors, and three file descriptor sets.  Each
    channel is generally in one of the three sets (reading, writing, or
    sleeping) at any given time.  The states should generally be
    considered mutually exclusive, since NNTP is not asychronous and a
    channel that's reading and writing at the same time is liable to
    deadlock, but the core code doesn't assume that.

    A channel fundamentally consists of two functions, a reader function
    called whenever data is available for it to read and a write-done
    function called when data it wrote has been completely written out.
    If it is put to sleep, it also needs a function that is called when it
    is woken up again.  Some channels may only read (such as the channels
    that accept connections) and some channels may only write (such as
    outgoing feeds), or channels may do both (like NNTP channels).

    Reading is handled by the channel itself, since some channels don't
    just read data from their file descriptor, but CHANreadtext is
    provided for channels to call from their reader fuctions if they want
    to read normally.  CHANreadtext puts the data into the channel's input
    buffer and handles resizing and compacting the buffer as needed.  To
    register as a reading channel, the channel calls RCHANadd, and then
    its file descriptor will be added to the read set and its reader
    function will be called whenever select indicates data is available.

    Writing is handled by the channel core code; the channel just puts
    data into its output buffer, usually using WCHANset or WCHANappend,
    and then calls WCHANadd to tell the channel code that data is
    available.  The data is written out as select indicates the file
    descriptor can take it, and when the write is complete, the channel's
    write-done function is called.

    Channels are put to sleep if there's some reason why they must not be
    allowed to do anything for some time.  Sleeping is generally used for
    write channels that have encountered some (hopefully temporary) error
    when writing, or which need to pause and spool output for a while
    before writing it out.  They're also used for NNTP channels when the
    server is paused.  A sleeping channel has an associated time to wake
    up, an optional event that will wake it up earlier, and a function
    that's called when it's woken up.  Sleeping is not used for writing
    channels that just don't have any data at the moment to write; those
    channels are just in none of the three states (which is also allowed).

    The core channel code also supports prioritized channels.  Normally,
    after each call to select returns, CHANreadloop walks through each
    channel in turn, doing the appropriate work if the channel selected
    for reading or writing or if it is time to wake it up.  However, on
    each pass, the prioritized channels are checked first to see if they
    selected for read, and if so, those reader functions are called
    immediately and the number of other events that will be handled that
    time through is capped (in case more data is available from the
    prioritized channels immediately).  Only the control channel and the
    remote connection channels are prioritized.

Channel Types

    The following channel types are implemented in innd:

    Remote connections (CTremconn)

        This is the channel that accepts new connections from remote
        peers.  If innd is running in the mode where it accepts and hands
        off reader connections to nnrpd, the remconn channel also does
        this.  Its reader function doesn't actually read data, but rather
        accepts the connection and creates a new NNTP channel.  These
        channels are always prioritized.  The implementation is in rc.c.

    NNTP (CTnntp)

        Channels that speak NNTP to a peer (or to nnrpd or rnews feeding
        articles to innd).  These channels are responsible for most of the
        data stored in the channel struct.  They are probably the most
        complex channels in innd and use all of the facilities of the
        channel code.  The implementation is in nc.c, including all the
        code to handle NNTP commands.

    Reject (CTreject)

        A special type of channel that exists solely to reject an unwanted
        connection.  Peers who connect while the server is overloaded, who
        try to open too many connections at once, or who have no access
        (when innd is not handing connections to nnrpd) are handed off to
        this type of channel.  All they do is write the rejection message
        and then close themselves.

    Local connections (CTlocalconn)

        innd maintains a separate local Unix domain socket for the use of
        nnrpd and rnews when injecting articles.  This channel type
        handles incoming connections on that socket and spawns an NNTP
        channel for them, similar to the remote connections channel.
        These channels are not prioritized (but possibly should be).  The
        implementation is in lc.c.

    Control (CTcontrol)

        innd can be given a wide variety of commands by external
        processes, either automated ones like control message handling or
        nightly expiration and log rotation or manual actions by the news
        administrator.  The control channel handles incoming requests on
        the Unix domain socket created for this purpose, runs the command,
        and returns the results.  This Unix domain socket is a datagram
        socket rather than a stream socket, so each command and response
        are single datagrams, making the reader function a bit different
        than other channels.  While the control channel writes its
        response back, it doesn't use the write support in the core
        channel code since it has to send a datagram; instead, it sends
        the response immediately from the reader function.  There is only
        one control channel and it is always prioritized.  The
        implementation is in cc.c.

    File (CTfile)
    Exploder (CTexploder)
    Process (CTprocess)

        These channels are used to implement different types of outgoing
        sites (outgoing channels configured in newsfeeds).  They are
        created as needed by the site code in site.c and get data mostly
        due to the processing of articles by art.c.  These channels are
        mostly alike from the perspective of the channel code, but have
        different types so that the site code can easily distinguish
        between them.

    In addition, the channel type CTany is used as a wildcard in some
    channel operations and the type CTfree is used in the channel table
    for free channels (corresponding to closed file descriptors).

Article Handling
Newsfeeds and Sites
The Active File

    To be written.
